>> Will Sentance: This time you spend
pairing through the challenges, and for
our online viewers the time you
spend hopefully pairing, but
maybe soloing through the challenges
is the real valuable stuff.
Not so much what we do here.
So, nevertheless though, right or wrongly
we are going to do some more stuff here.
Rightly or wrongly,.
So, you're already there
encountering in those challenges
more than just a timer built in
browser feature, built in browser API.
And that the browser API they're
becoming more than just a timer.
Which other ones were we encountering?
Andrea?
>> Andrea: Sorry,
I'm [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: It's
ajax functionality, right?
This
>> Will Sentance: Well, here you go.
There are many things where
waiting would block our thread.
We're waiting for something,
here we were waiting for a timer to
complete, but there's other things.
And therefore we use
browser functionality,
built in browser functionality
interfaces with those functions instead.
So, things we could wait for,
a timer to finish running,
new information from a server,
an indication that a portion of the page
has loaded, user interactions,
waiting for users to click on something.
Writing or reading to a file system in
note when you write to your computer or
writing/reading to a database in note.
All of these are thing
we have to wait for, and
we got a functionality we
can't wait in the main thread.
So what we do, for each of these,
we have a web browser feature that
we can spin up in the background, where we
can have a reference of the functionality
that we want to call only when
that background feature completes.
And then parse that functionality
back to the main call stack.
Okay, I wanna add a few bonus things in
relation to what our wonderful online
audience asked.
They said hold on, what if,
>> Will Sentance: When I call,
when I store printHello,
or reference printHello,
when I use set time out,
what if my block for one second.
Maybe I call a function recursively, and
my core stack's getting fuller and fuller.
Will my printHello ever be invoked?
Will it ever be added to the call stack?
What do we think?
If I were to call a function,
maybe block for one second and
inside call a block for one second and
inside, basically it's recursively
call a function until it's filling up the
call stack until it hits stack overflow,
and there's no more space
to fill up any higher.
Will I ever actually get a chance to
push printHello to the call stack.
What do you think Katie?
>> Katie: No.
>> Will Sentance: I won't.
So will I ever see console log hello?
I'll never see it.
If I were to run for block one second,
three, four, five times here, even if my
time is finished, I will not insert My
printHello function on to my call stack,
until my call stack's empty which include
my global execution context finishing
all of it's code to be run.
Let's be really clear on that, it includes
me finishing all of my global code.
If I had block for one second running
ten times, all of those would run before
my printHello ever got out
of back to the call stack.
These are a few of the questions
that came from online,
although it's good questions, okay.
One final thing,
we parse reference to printHello,
not the actual copy of the function.
We're actually copying the function into
the web API, just a reference to it,
just where it is stored
in JavaScript's memory.
Okay, so we wanna add to that.
There are many thing we can end up waiting
for, here we're waiting for a time up but
what about all these other things?
Well, let's see one of them before
we go back to the challenges.
So some of our API, some of our
built in features of the browser,
they actually speak to somewhere else
outside of the browser like a server.
Therefore they actually come back with
data, the design of the web browser API.
Let me be really clear one more time.
Web browser API's are not,
Mohammed, are not
the API that you're speaking to for
Bands in Town.
That your JavaScript speaks
to the web browser API for
speaking to the band's in town
API on someone else's computer.
So what other browser APIs do we have?
Well, we have one called XHR HTTP request.
Which is this special one that allows you
to speak to an API like Bands in Town.
So this web browser,
Chrome's built-in API,
a functionality feature of the browser,
is there to let us speak to the network.
JavaScript cannot speak to the Internet.
It speaks to the Internet by speaking
to the web browser features.
One of which is timer,
another of which is XHR HTTP requests.
A little special feature that
can speak to the Internet.
Can speak to Twitter's API.
Can speak to Bands and Towns API.
We're gonna see that one in action here,
we're gonna walk through this
code just the same way we did.
By the way, that one is designed
to be able to receive data and
make sure the function that gets
passed back into JavaScript land is
already pre-bundled with the return
data from the Bands in Town API.
We're gonna walk through this one in full.
Yeah, Mark go ahead.
>> Mark: Just a question on the setTimeout
stuff.
>> Will Sentance: Okay, go for
it.
>> Mark: Okay,
well, what happens if the setTimeout
is inside a function,
does that function sit on the call
stack until the timer runs, or
does it get popped out immediately?
>> Will Sentance: Wherever setTimeout's
declared or executed, if setTimeout
is being executed inside a function,
well that function when it gets called
will inside it create an execution context
where it'll then call set timeout.
Which will then speak to the web
browser land, instantly complete,
go back into the function in which
it's being called execution context,
which will then run in
JavaScript complete whatever.
And then only then we're gonna call
back function that was parsed to set
timer out be finally parsed
back to the call stack.
So, it doesn't make any difference where
you call setTimeout, if you call it inside
a function fine, it's still speaking to
our web browser APIs, okay, all right.
I wanna look at that pairing as well
to see if there is anything I can add.
So, we're now going to
use a different API,
a different web browser API.
This one is for interacting with
other computers on the network,
other servers, other APIs.
This one is for speaking outside of our,
not just JavaScript, but
outside of our whole computer.
We're gonna go through it line by line and
see it play out in action.
This is our final function for
asynchronous JavaScript.